Retinal whole-mount staining Retinal whole mounts were prepared as previously described with minor modifications52. Eyecups were fixed in 4% PFA at 4 °C for 1 h, then transferred to individual wells of a 48-well plate containing PBS. The cornea was carefully removed using fine forceps and scissors, followed by gentle separation of the sclera and choroid from the retina, avoiding direct contact with the retinal tissue to prevent damage. The lens and hyaloid vasculature were removed, and the isolated retina was used for immunohistochemistry. Samples were incubated with primary antibodies overnight at 4 °C. Antibodies of collagen IV (Millipore, AB756P; 1:200 dilution) and CD11b (BD Biosciences, 550285; 1:500 dilution) were used. The following day, tissues were washed and incu- bated with secondary antibodies for 2 h and then DAPI staining at room temperature. Following final PBS washes, each retina was transferred to a six-well Teflon-coated slide with 8-mm diameter wells (Electron Microscopy Sciences, 63423-08), positioning the optic nerve head at the center. Four to six evenly spaced radial incisions were made from the periphery toward the center to flatten the retina into a ‘flower-like’ configuration. Retinal petals were gently unfolded and flattened with the vitreous surface facing upward. Excess buffer was removed, and a drop of SlowFade mounting medium (Molecular Probes) was added before applying a coverslip. Slides were imaged immediately or stored at 4 °C in the dark until confocal microscopy. Choroid flat-mount staining Eyecups were fixed in 4% PFA at 4 °C for 1 h and transferred to individual wells of a 48-well plate containing PBS. The cornea was removed with fine forceps and scissors, followed by careful separation of the RPE– choroid–sclera complex from the rest of the eyeball. To remove RPE cells, the remaining tissue was incubated in freshly prepared 1% EDTA in PBS for 2 h at room temperature. For melanin bleaching, tissues were incubated in 10% hydrogen peroxide (Sigma, H1009) diluted in PBS at 55 °C for 90 min in a water bath. After bleaching, tissues were washed three times in PBS and twice in PBS containing 0.1% Triton X-100. Immunohistochemistry staining was then performed using the same procedure as described for retinal whole mounts. Confocal microscopy and quantification All images were acquired using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (LSM710, Carl Zeiss) and processed with ZEN 2010 software (Carl Zeiss) and ImageJ/Fiji (National Institutes of Health or NIH). For retinal thick- ness analysis, recoverin- and DAPI-labeled cryosections were imaged at high resolution. Thickness was measured at eight equidistant radial points extending from the optic nerve toward the peripheral retina on both the nasal and temporal sides. Mean values were calculated for each eye. Eyes injected with erucamide or vehicle (n ≥ 5 per group) were compared. The full procedure was repeated in four independent experiments. Statistical analysis was performed using two-way ANOVA, and data were plotted with GraphPad Prism 10. For vascular density analysis and CD11b+ cell quantification, z-stacks of three-channel con- focal images (collagen IV, CD11b and DAPI) were acquired at 5-μm step intervals