--- Page 1 --- Nature Neuroscience nature neuroscience https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-026-02341-w Article A fatty acid amide activates myeloid cells and improves neurovascular outcomes in retinal degeneration Guoqin Wei 1,2, Shreyosree Chatterjee3, Qinglin Yang4,5, Sanahan Vijayakumar4,5, Daisuke Ogasawara 3, Sarah Giles2, Katie Biscocho1, Peter Westenskow1, Junhua Wang3, Ruhan Fan4,5, Helena Pham1,2, Edith Aguilar1, Jacob Robinson1, Ayumi Usui-Ouchi1, Roberto Bonelli2, Kevin Eade2, Gary Siuzdak 3,6, Benjamin Cravatt 3, Michael J. Sailor 4,5, Dale Boger 3 & Martin Friedlander 1,2 N­eu­rovasculoglial cross-talk underlying breakdown of the neurovascular unit is a central, yet poorly understood, component of m­an­y n­eu­ro­de­ge­ ne­rative disorders of the CNS, including retinal disease. Primary fatty acid amides have been identified to regulate this cross-talk between vasculature and neuronal tissues, but specific molecules and mechanisms remain unresolved. Here we show, using an unbiased high-resolution metabolomics screen, that erucamide, a 22:1 m­o­n­ou­n­s­at­urated omega-9 fatty acid amide, is highly dysregulated during photoreceptor degeneration in mice. In vivo delivery of erucamide using organosilane-modified porous silicon nanoparticles activated retinal myeloid cells, leading to the upregulation of angiogenic and neurotrophic cytokines that l­i­m­it­ed v­a­s­cu­lar and neuronal degeneration. We identified TMEM19 as a binding protein for erucamide that is crucial for myeloid cell activation and subsequent neuroprotection. These findings reveal a previously unknown primary fatty acid amide pathway that modulates neuroimmune interactions during retinal degenerative diseases. We propose erucamide and analogs as candidate therapeutics. The vast majority of diseases that lead to catastrophic loss of vision do so as a result of breakdown in the neurovascular and glial unit of the ret- ina. Retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cell malfunction and subsequent photoreceptor degeneration can lead to vision loss, exemplified by con- ditions such as age-related macular degeneration (AMD)1. Other leading causes of vision loss are inherited retinal degenerations such as retini- tis pigmentosa2,3 and neurovascular retinal diseases such as diabetic retinopathy4. These diseases either do not have a clear genetic basis (for example, diabetic retinopathy) or are genetically heterogeneous (for example, retinitis pigmentosa)5. While these diseases have differ- ent underlying causes, they share similar pathologies with functional loss of the interconnected vasculature, glia, photoreceptors and RPE, leading to vascular anomalies and photoreceptor death. Photoreceptors convert light into electrical signals through a collaboration between cells of the neurosensory retina and the RPE and choriocapillaris. This phototransduction process begins in the photosensitive outer segments of rod and cone photoreceptors. The RPE plays a critical role in this process by interdigitating with Received: 3 December 2024 Accepted: 13 May 2026 Published online: xx xx xxxx Check for updates 1Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Scripps Research, La Jolla, CA, USA. 2Lowy Medical Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA. 3Department of Chemistry, Scripps Research, La Jolla, CA, USA. 4Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. 5Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. 6Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA. e-mail: friedlan@scripps.edu --- Page 2 --- Nature Neuroscience Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-026-02341-w a database