factor largely by targeting and activating MPCs through TMEM19. Knockdown of TMEM19 by siRNA results in failure to respond to the erucamide-stimulated paracrine effect of growth factors, which is consistent with in vivo knockdown of TMEM19 and inhibition of erucamide–TMEM19 downstream pathways by neutralizing antibod- ies (Fig. 7). These observations provide insight into the action of the angiogenic factor erucamide as a cross-tissue signaling molecule. It may function similarly in multiple organ systems where it plays a critical role in regulating neurovasculoglial cross-talk. Discussion In recent years, growing evidence has highlighted that neurovascu- lar and glial cross-talk is essential for maintaining healthy, functional neurons, blood vessels and glia in the CNS40, including the retina. Ther- apeutic strategies aimed at preventing neuronal degeneration and vision loss have focused on modulating neurotrophic and angiogenic signaling pathways as well as using iPS cell-derived retinal tissues to replace damaged RPE cells/photoreceptors, stabilizing retinal struc- ture and visual function41–44. Several studies have shown that stem cell transplantation into the eyes of retinitis pigmentosa animal models can partially improve visual function45,46. However, concerns remain regarding the long-term efficacy of iPS cell-derived RPE therapies, particularly due to the risk of oncogenic mutations and tumorigen- esis reported in both preclinical models and clinical observations47,48. For example, a pilot clinical study that administered mesenchymal GCL INL ONL Deep plexus Intermediate plexus Superficial plexus RPE IS/OS a Healthy retina b RP retina c RP retina + erucamide Rods Cones Müller glia Microglia Horizontal cells Bipolar cells Amacrine Retinal ganglion cells d RP retina + Eru + neutralizing Abs/AAV2-shTMEM19 Erucamide level Normal Low Rescued Blocked Fig. 7 | Proposed function of erucamide in the retina. a, In healthy retinas, a certain level of erucamide is essential to nourish the neural layers and retinal vessels by maintaining the secretion of neurotrophic and angiogenic factors from microglia. IS/OS, photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment junction; GCL, ganglion cell layer. b, In retinas with retinitis pigmentosa (RP), erucamide is diminished, photoreceptors are degenerated, and retinal vessels are atrophic in the deep plexus. c, In retinitis pigmentosa retinas rescued with erucamide injections, erucamide regulated the secretion of neurotrophic and angiogenic factors from microglia. These microglia were activated through all layers, especially in the ONL at P32, leading to an increase in retinal vessel density in the deep plexus and a slight increase in the thickness of both ONL and INL. d, In retinitis pigmentosa retinas injected simultaneously with erucamide and AAV-TMEM19 or downstream neutralizing antibodies, these rescue effects are blocked, leading to continued photoreceptor degeneration and deep plexus atrophy, similarly to untreated retinitis pigmentosa retinas in b. Figure created in BioRender; Wei, G. https://biorender.com/8d5lglz (2026). --- Page 12 --- Nature Neuroscience Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-026-02341-w stem cells, adipose-derived stem cells and platelet-rich plasma into the suprachoroidal space of 21 patients with retinitis pigmentosa did not show significant improvements in visual performance up to 6 months after treatment49. The limited survival rates and potential immune responses pose important hurdles to the widespread clinical application of stem cell therapies in treating