compromised due to the Pde6b mutation. This incomplete A-wave recovery suggests that the enhanced B-wave likely reflects not only residual photoreceptor input but also neurotrophic modulation of inner retinal cells. Supporting this, erucamide treatment elevated CD11b+ myeloid infiltration and upregulated trophic factors such as FGF, IGF-1 and BDNF, which may enhance synaptic function or resilience of bipolar and Müller cells. These findings point to a dual mechanism of action: preservation of rod photoreceptors and functional support to inner retinal circuits, underlying the observed rescue of visual signaling. TMEM19 is a new transmembrane protein with no reported function in any other cell type or tissues. Using single-cell RNA-seq databases from the Spectacle Platform, we found that TMEM19 has low expression in retinas across different databases for humans and mice, with signals mainly from the microglia50, which is consistent with our observations. Future investigations will more closely examine the pre- cise mechanisms regulated by TMEM19 and explore additional applica- tions of erucamide in both in vitro and in vivo models. Furthermore, the optimization of erucamide analogs to enhance solubility and prolong in vivo half-life could potentially offer novel small-molecule-based therapies for AMD, retinitis pigmentosa and other neurovasculoglial degenerative diseases. Conversely, the development of erucamide antagonists or TMEM19 inhibitors could provide strategies to mitigate pathological angiogenesis associated with conditions like diabetic retinopathy and neovascular AMD. In conclusion, our findings support the use of small-molecule- based therapies targeting the erucamide–TMEM19 pathway as a prom- ising therapy for the treatment of retinal degenerative diseases, offer- ing potential advantages in terms of efficacy and clinical applicability. This discovery expands our understanding of PFAMs beyond their established roles in the CNS, shedding light on their potential thera- peutic applications in retinal degenerative diseases. By elucidating the molecular underpinnings of erucamide’s neurotrophic effects, this study may advance therapeutic strategies that preserve vision and improve quality of life for patients affected by these devastating conditions worldwide. Online content Any methods, additional references, Nature Portfolio reporting sum- maries, source data, extended data, supplementary information, acknowledgements, peer review information; details of author contri- butions and competing interests; and statements of data and code avail- ability are available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-026-02341-w. References 1. Law, C. W. et al. RNA-seq analysis is easy as 1-2-3 with limma, Glimma and edgeR. F1000Res 5, ISCB Comm J-1408 (2016). 2. Blackshaw, S. et al. Genomic analysis of mouse retinal development. PLoS Biol. 2, E247 (2004). 3. Verbakel, S. K. et al. Non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa. Prog. Retin. Eye Res. 66, 157–186 (2018). 4. Milam, A. H., Li, Z. Y. & Fariss, R. N. Histopathology of the human retina in retinitis pigmentosa. Prog. Retin. Eye Res. 17, 175–205 (1998). 5. O’Neal, T. B. & Luther, E. E. Retinitis Pigmentosa (StatPearls, 2024). 6. Strauss, O. The retinal pigment epithelium in visual function. Physiol. Rev. 85, 845–881 (2005). 7. Lewandowski, D. et al. Dynamic lipid turnover in photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium throughout life. Prog. Retin. Eye Res. 89, 101037 (2022). 8. Gantner, M. L. et al. Serine and lipid metabolism