sufficiently hydrophilic to allow full dispersion in aqueous solutions. pSiNPs are biocompatible, showing low toxicity in multiple endothelial cell types (Extended Data Fig. 2a, average viability exceeded 85% at all tested concentrations), and can biodegrade into silicic acid end products that are readily excreted from the body20. In addition, their tunable pore size and their readily functionalized surface make them amenable to the loading of a wide range of small-molecule and biologic therapeutics. As a result, pSiNPs have been used extensively to deliver drugs to sensitive and hard-to-reach tissues21, including the delivery of small-molecule drugs to the vitreous22,23. Chemical surface functionalization of pSiNPs with n-octadecylsilane (H3Si (CH2)17CH3, referred to here as C18) imparts a hydrophobic character24 to the mesopores (10–15 nm), and thus were chosen for loading of erucamide (Fig. 1g). The nanoparticles maintained desirable sizes (~200 nm) and zeta potential25,26 (−33 mV) after erucamide loading, as shown by the transmission electron microscopy images, dynamic light scattering and zeta potential (ζ-potential) measurements (Extended Data Fig. 2b–d). The loading of erucamide was confirmed by the attenuated total reflec- tance Fourier transform infrared spectrum of the erucamide-loaded C18-pSiNPs (Eru-C18-pSi), which displayed the characteristic C = O (at 1,690 cm−1) and N-H (at 3,310 cm−1) stretching bands of erucamide. The C-H scissor and stretching modes (at 1,465 cm−1 and 2,849 cm−1, respectively) are assigned to both erucamide and the C18 surface the photoreceptor outer segments where it, among other things, phagocytoses shed outer segments and recycles isomerized opsins. Its functions are necessary for the activity and survival of photorecep- tors6. Tightly controlled lipid homeostasis is crucial to regulate the turnover between photoreceptors and RPE cells and to maintain their cellular functions7. Distinct lipid mediators, such as specific fatty acid amides, are also essential for maintaining retinal health and function. For exam- ple, ceramides are key players in various forms of photoreceptor cell death and are potential drug targets for retinal degenerative dis- eases8. Anandamide, also known as N-arachidonoylethanolamide, is a well-characterized neurotransmitter that regulates the endocannabi- noid signaling pathway and can modulate visual signal processing by interacting with cannabinoid receptors in the retina9. However, little is known about the specific roles of primary fatty acid amides (PFAMs) in the retina. As a direct extension of the CNS, the retina shares many char- acteristics with brain tissue. A better understanding of the biological and pathological functions of PFAMs in the retina is also likely to shed light on their roles in the brain and other neuronal tissues. PFAMs10,11 represent a family of endogenous chemical messengers and signaling molecules in the mammalian nervous system. Struc- turally, PFAMs consist of a long hydrocarbon chain with an amide group (–CONH2) at one end. PFAMs like palmitamide, oleamide and the other three PFAMs were first discovered in 1989 in luteal phase plasma12. Although their biological functions were initially unclear, interest increased when oleamide was identified as an endogenous sleep-inducing molecule in mammalian cerebrospinal fluid10. Another PFAM, erucamide, was detected in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid of pig brain13