(BDPErucamide, Eru.da, Ole.da and Pal.da) are listed in the Supplementary Information. Statistical analysis Statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism 10 software. Unless otherwise specified, data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation or standard error of the mean. Comparisons between two groups were made using two-tailed unpaired t-tests. For two-factor experimental designs, two-way ANOVA followed by Fisher’s LSD post hoc test was applied. For multiple-group comparisons, the two-stage, step-up method (Benjamini, Krieger and Yekutieli) was used for control- ling the false discovery rate in multiple unpaired t-tests. A P value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. All data points represent indi- vidual biological replicates, and no statistical methods were used to predetermine sample size. All experiments were repeated indepen- dently at least three times. Statistics and reproducibility No statistical method was used to predetermine sample size. No data were excluded from the analyses. For in vivo experiments using rd10, WT C57BL/6J and RhoP23H mice, animals within the same litter were ran- domly assigned to treatment groups (C18-pSi vehicle or Eru-C18-pSi). For the AAV2 knockdown experiments, each mouse received contralat- eral eye injections (AAV2-Scr in the left eye, AAV2-shTMEM19 in the right eye), with subsequent bilateral assignment to vehicle or erucamide treatment randomized within litters. Investigators were not blinded to group allocation during in vivo experiments; however, quantifica- tion of retinal layer thickness, vascular density, CD11b+ cell counts and ERG analysis were performed using standardized automated or semiautomated methods to minimize subjective bias. For in vitro experiments (iPS cell-MPC treatments, PAL assays, qPCR), treatments were performed in parallel under identical conditions. All experiments were independently repeated at least three times with similar results, except where otherwise stated in the figure legends. Reporting summary Further information on research design is available in the Nature Portfolio Reporting Summary linked to this article. Data availability The RNA-seq raw data generated in this study have been deposited in the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus under accession code GSE284637 (token: ixqlwguktpgfjwr for review). The proteomics data from the PAL assay are provided as Supplementary Information. All other data supporting the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request. Source data are provided with this paper. Code availability This paper does not report the original code. References 52. Aguilar, E. et al. Chapter 6. Ocular models of angiogenesis. Methods Enzymol. 444, 115–158 (2008). 53. Zhu, Z.-J. et al. Liquid chromatography quadrupole time- of-flight mass spectrometry characterization of metabolites guided by the METLIN database. Nat. Protoc. 8, 451–460 (2013). 54. Kang, J. et al. Self-sealing porous silicon-calcium silicate core-shell nanoparticles for targeted siRNA delivery to the injured brain. Adv. Mater. 28, 7962–7969 (2016). 55. Ewels, P., Magnusson, M., Lundin, S. & Kaller, M. MultiQC: summarize analysis results for multiple tools and samples in a single report. Bioinformatics 32, 3047–3048 (2016). 56. Liao, Y., Smyth, G. K. & Shi, W. The R package Rsubread is easier, faster, cheaper and better for alignment and quantifi­ cation of RNA sequencing reads. Nucleic Acids Res. 47,