the smallest nanoparticle fragments that remained in the suspension, and the pellet was resuspended in fresh ethanol. The high-speed centrifugation/resuspension proce- dure was carried out two more times to thoroughly wash the nano- particles. The resulting pSiNPs displayed an average hydrodynamic size of ~170 nm. Surface modification of pSiNPs The collected pSiNPs were washed and centrifuged (15,000g, 15 min) twice with toluene to remove residual ethanol. The pSiNPs were then resuspended in toluene and transferred into a glass vial, and n-octadecylsilane was added. The final concentration of pSiNPs and n-octadecylsilane was 3 mg ml−1 and 0.6 mg ml−1, respectively. A reac- tion vessel containing the pSiNPs and n-octadecylsilane was heated in a 95 °C oil bath for 24 h with magnetic stirring. The mixture was sonicated occasionally during the reaction to ensure full suspension of the nanoparticles. The particles were subsequently washed and centrifuged three times with toluene and three times with ethanol and finally resuspended in 100% ethanol for storage. Characterization of pSiNPs Hydrodynamic diameter (size) and the ζ-potential (or surface charge) measurements were obtained on a Zetasizer, Zs90 (Malvern Instru- ments). All pSiNP, C18-pSiNP and Eru-C18-pSiNP size measurements and ζ-potential measurements were measured with particles dis- persed in deionized water. For hydrodynamic size measurements, 400 μl of 10 µg ml−1 of particles were used while for ζ-potential, 800 μl of 10 µg ml−1 of particles were used. The FTIR spectra of the particles were obtained with a Thermo Scientific Nicolet 6700 FTIR instru- ment fitted with a Smart iTR diamond ATR fixture. TEM images were obtained using a JEOL 1400 plus electron microscope (JEOL USA) operating at 80 kV and subsequently imaged with a Gatan Oneview camera (Gatan). Thermogravimetric analysis data were obtained using a TA Instruments Discovery SDT 650. Nanoparticle samples were heated from 30–950 °C at a ramp rate of 10 °C min−1 in a pure oxygen atmosphere. Both weight (%) change and derivative heat flow values were assessed, and erucamide content was determined by the difference in mass loss between empty and erucamide-loaded organosilane-modified pSiNPs. Dye-loaded particle constructs were assessed using a Molecular Devices SpectraMax iD5 Multi-Mode Microplate Reader. N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms were obtained using dry nanoparticles at a temperature of 77 K using a Micromeritics ASAP 2020 instrument. Loading of erucamide to pSiNPs A 10 mg ml−1 stock solution of erucamide was prepared by dissolving erucamide in ethanol overnight. A 3.4 mg ml−1 sample of C18-pSiNPs in ethanol was centrifuged (15,000g, 10 min) to remove free ethanol and the particles were re-dispersed in 1 ml of the 10 mg ml−1 erucamide stock solution. The particles were then subsequently allowed to mix at 20 °C overnight. The particles were then centrifuged (15,000g, 10 min) and washed three times with PBS to remove any unbound erucamide and were resuspended in PBS or media and were used immediately after resuspension. Cell culture The HMC3 cell line (CRL-3304) was purchased from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) and cultured with Eagle’s Minimum Essential Medium (EMEM, 30-2003, ATCC). The