lipid probe-labeled proteins were conjugated to biotin azide by CuAAC reaction. The biotin-labeled proteins were then enriched with streptavidin beads and trypsin digested, and the digested peptides were labeled with TMT, followed by combination, HPLC fractionation and LC–MS/MS analysis36. HEK293T cells were then UV irradiated then UV irradiated and lysed, and lipid probe-labeled pro- teins were conjugated to Rhodamine by CuAAC reaction. The labeled proteins were then used for visualizing by western blot. Western blotting HMC3 cells and HEK293T cells were treated with vehicle (ethanol) or a lipid probe for 3 h in the incubator. Cells were then UV irradiated and lysed, and lipid probe-labeled proteins were conjugated to Rhodamine dye by CuAAC reaction. Around 25 μl samples were fractionated on 10% Tris-Glycin SDS–PAGE gel at 275 V (constant) for 240 min, followed by standard western blotting analysis. The following antibodies were used for western blotting: ANTI-FLAG M2 antibody, Mouse monoclonal (Sigma-Aldrich, F1804), horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies (anti-mouse NA9310, GE, 1:5,000 dilution). Retinal myeloid cell isolation by flow cytometry A postnatal neural dissociation kit (Miltenyi, 130-092-628) was used to prepare a single-cell suspension from mouse retinas. Cells were cen- trifuged at 150g for 5 min at 4 °C. The digested tissue was resuspended in 100 μl of 4% FBS in PBS containing an FITC antibody to CD11b (1:100 dilution; BioLegend, 101206) and incubated for 20 min on ice. The cells --- Page 16 --- Nature Neuroscience Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-026-02341-w were washed and suspended with 1 ml of 4% FBS/PBS containing DAPI (1:2,000 dilution; Thermo Fisher Scientific, 62248). Labeled retinal myeloid cells (CD11b positive) were isolated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (MoFlo Astrios EQ; Beckman Coulter) at the Scripps Flow Cytometry Core Facility. Sorted cells were resuspended in 350 μl of RLT buffer from RNeasy Micro Kit (QIAGEN) and stored at −80 °C. RNA isolation, real-time PCR and RNA-seq For whole retina and culture cells, single retinas were collected in 500 μl of TRIzol and total RNA was isolated using a PureLink RNA Mini Kit (Thermo Fisher Scientific) according to the manufacturer’s instruc- tions. Seven hundred and fifty nanograms of RNA was used for RT–qPCR using a high-capacity cDNA reverse transcription kit (Thermo Fisher Scientific). For flow-sorted cells, total RNA was isolated from sorted cells using the RNeasy Micro Kit (QIAGEN) and reverse transcribed using Maxima First Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit for RT–qPCR (Thermo Scientific). qPCR was performed using Power-up SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and primers on a Quantstudio 5 Real-Time PCR System (Thermo Fisher Scientific). β-actin (Actb) was used as the reference gene for all experiments. Levels of mRNA expres- sion were normalized to those in controls as determined using the comparative CT (ΔΔCT) method. RNA samples were used for RNA-seq in Scripps Genetic Cores. Quality control of raw sequencing data was performed using FastQC and MultiQC56. Raw reads were aligned to the reference genome using RSubread57. Gene expression levels were quantified using featureCounts. Post-alignment quality control included assessing the distribution of reads across genomic features (for example,