Received: 3 December 2024 Accepted: 13 May 2026 Published online: xx xx xxxx Check for updates 1Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Scripps Research, La Jolla, CA, USA. 2Lowy Medical Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA. 3Department of Chemistry, Scripps Research, La Jolla, CA, USA. 4Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. 5Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. 6Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA. e-mail: friedlan@scripps.edu --- Page 2 --- Nature Neuroscience Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-026-02341-w a database we developed (METLIN)17,18. Of all the untargeted metabo- lites, PFAMs emerged as one of the most severely dysregulated classes of metabolites in degenerating retinas (Fig. 1a). Of these, erucamide (22:1, n-9; C22H43NO), a 22:1 monounsaturated omega-9 fatty acid amide whose functions are not completely understood, was the most abundant PFAM in the eyes from wild-type rats (Fig. 1b,c). However, it was significantly reduced in the RCS rat model of photoreceptor atrophy (Fig. 1d,e). Erucamide’s level was also largely decreased in the rd10 mice (B6.CXB1-Pde6brd10/J), a rodent retinitis pigmentosa model of photoreceptor loss, at both postnatal day (P) 12 and P28 (Fig. 1f and Extended Data Fig. 1a), suggesting that it may play a role in photoreceptor maintenance. Erucamide is present in the CNS of many species10,15,19 and has been shown to regulate angiogenesis and water balance in skeletal muscle and the intestine14,15,19. However, its function in the CNS, biosyn- thetic pathway, site of action and potential signaling cascades are all unknown. In addition, detection of erucamide in human retinal tissue has not been previously demonstrated. Using liquid chromatogra- phy coupled to mass spectrometry (LC–MS), we detected picogram quantities of erucamide in peripheral retinal tissue from postmortem human donor eyes (n = 6, age range 62–85 years) from Lions NSW Eye Bank, Sydney Local Health District Ethics Review Committee (2020/ ETH03339), suggesting that it is ubiquitously expressed in the retina across multiple species (Extended Data Fig. 1b,c). As erucamide is highly hydrophobic, direct retinal injection is not possible because it aggregates locally and fails to disperse within the retina after intra- vitreal injection. Consequently, we generated functionalized pSiNPs for the delivery of erucamide both in vivo and in cultured tissues. The pores of these particles were functionalized with hydrophobic n-octadecylsilane groups to facilitate loading of erucamide, while the overall particles remain sufficiently hydrophilic to allow full dispersion in aqueous solutions. pSiNPs are biocompatible, showing low toxicity in multiple endothelial cell types (Extended Data Fig. 2a, average viability exceeded 85% at all tested concentrations), and can biodegrade into silicic acid end products that are readily excreted from the body20. In addition, their tunable pore size and their readily functionalized surface make them amenable to the loading of a wide range of small-molecule and biologic therapeutics. As a result, pSiNPs have been used extensively to deliver drugs to sensitive and hard-to-reach tissues21, including the delivery of small-molecule drugs to the vitreous22,23. Chemical surface