example, FGF-2, VEGFa and PDGFα) triggered by erucamide were not upregulated or activated (Extended Data Fig. 5d,e). Interestingly, the general activa- tion of MPCs by TGFβ1, lipopolysaccharides or dimethyloxalylglycine was not affected by knocking down TMEM19 (Extended Data Fig. 5f). These results suggest that TMEM19 is an authentic binding protein for erucamide and is essential for pro-angiogenic and neurotrophic signaling pathways mediated by erucamide in MPCs. To further validate the role of the erucamide–TMEM19 axis at the in vivo level, we gener- ated an adeno-associated virus encoding an shRNA (AAV2-shRNA) to knock down TMEM19 in rd10 mice. As shown by Fig. 5e, for each mouse, we injected AAV2-Scrambled (AAV2-Scr) viruses into the left eye, and AAV2-shTMEM19 viruses into the right eye at P7. Five days later, either vehicle or Eru was injected into both eyes. At P32, both the activation of CD11b+ cells in different layers (Extended Data Fig. 5g,h) and the rescuing effect of erucamide in deep plexus vasculature (Fig. 5f and Extended Data Fig. 5h) were gone in the eyes injected with AAV2-shTMEM19, In addition, erucamide-induced preservation of ONL and INL thicknesses was also lost in TMEM19-knockdown eyes (Extended Data Fig. 5i). Also, an ERG functional study indicated that scotopic B-wave rescuing was blocked in TMEM19-knockdown eyes (Fig. 5g,h). We continued to interfere with the pathway mediated by eru- camide–TMEM19 in rd10 mice by using neutralizing antibodies for the downstream angiogenic and neurotrophic factors of VEGFA, FGF-2 and TNF, which were found to be regulated by erucamide both in the MPCs and in vivo CD11b+ cells, to test if these factors are the downstream agents of erucamide rescue in degenerating retinas. The cocktail of neutralizing antibodies or IgG controls was intravitreally injected together with Eru-C18-pSi as illustrated in Fig. 6a. The rescued pheno- type induced by erucamide in rd10 mice was largely blocked by these neutralizing antibodies in retinal thickness (Fig. 6b,c), deep plexus vessel density and CD11b+ cell recruitment (Fig. 6d–f). Neutralizing antibodies also prevented functional rescue in ERG by erucamide (Fig. 6g,h), indicating the rescue effects of erucamide in rd10 mice are mediated by erucamide–TMEM19 through the downstream angiogenic and neurotrophic factors of VEGFa, FGF-2 and TNF. We found that erucamide is highly abundant in normal retinas and is severely dysregulated during retinal degeneration. Erucamide was found to be a potent pro-angiogenic, paracrine signaling molecule that regulates the retinal angiogenic environment and functions as a neurotrophic factor largely by targeting and activating MPCs through TMEM19. Knockdown of TMEM19 by siRNA results in failure to respond to the erucamide-stimulated paracrine effect of growth factors, which is consistent with in vivo knockdown of TMEM19 and inhibition of erucamide–TMEM19 downstream pathways by neutralizing antibod- ies (Fig. 7). These observations provide insight into the action of the angiogenic factor erucamide as a cross-tissue signaling molecule. It may function similarly in multiple organ systems where it plays a critical role in regulating neurovasculoglial cross-talk. Discussion In recent years, growing evidence has highlighted that neurovascu- lar and glial cross-talk is essential for