with erucamide and AAV-TMEM19 or downstream neutralizing antibodies, these rescue effects are blocked, leading to continued photoreceptor degeneration and deep plexus atrophy, similarly to untreated retinitis pigmentosa retinas in b. Figure created in BioRender; Wei, G. https://biorender.com/8d5lglz (2026). --- Page 12 --- Nature Neuroscience Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-026-02341-w stem cells, adipose-derived stem cells and platelet-rich plasma into the suprachoroidal space of 21 patients with retinitis pigmentosa did not show significant improvements in visual performance up to 6 months after treatment49. The limited survival rates and potential immune responses pose important hurdles to the widespread clinical application of stem cell therapies in treating retinal degenerative diseases like AMD and reti- nitis pigmentosa. Given these limitations, we explored whether small molecules expressed by iPS cell-derived retinal tissue could provide neurovasculotrophic rescue in models of retinal degeneration. Metabo- lomic and lipidomic screens of degenerating retinas revealed a PFAM, erucamide, with paracrine neurotrophic activity that exerted a pro- found rescue effect on models of retinal neurovascular degeneration. Our approach involved the use of advanced nanoparticles to allow effective in vivo delivery of erucamide, circumventing its hydrophobic nature and enhancing its bioavailability in the retina. Furthermore, we identified CD11b+ myeloid cells as primary targets of erucamide within the retina. Consistent with prior studies implicat- ing myeloid cells in photoreceptor support, erucamide treatment pro- moted CD11b+ cell activation across retinal layers, with significant ONL accumulation observed specifically in erucamide-treated degenerating rd10 retinas. This context-dependent ONL accumulation of CD11b+ cells is consistent with support of neurotrophic signaling to degenerating photoreceptors and paracrine angiogenic support of the adjacent deep vascular plexus. Further mechanistic studies using PAL, click chemistry for biotin-derived affinity enrichment and multiplexed quantitative proteomics alongside closely related PFAMs, revealed TMEM19 as a new transmembrane protein serving as a major and selective bind- ing partner for erucamide. Our findings define erucamide–TMEM19 signaling as a regulator of retinal homeostasis through the coordinated modulation of neuronal, glial and vascular compartments. Rather than acting solely as a neuroprotective or anti-inflammatory molecule, erucamide orchestrates a broader ‘cross-talk’ between neural, vascular and glial elements of the retina. Activation of TMEM19 on microglial cells stimulates the secretion of cytokines and growth factors (includ- ing VEGF, PDGF, FGF-2, IGF-1 and BDNF) that support photoreceptor integrity and maintain vascular networks. Although erucamide-treated rd10 mice showed significant B-wave recovery under scotopic conditions, A-wave amplitudes exhibited only modest, nonsignificant increases, consistent with partial preservation of photoreceptors that remain genetically compromised due to the Pde6b mutation. This incomplete A-wave recovery suggests that the enhanced B-wave likely reflects not only residual photoreceptor input but also neurotrophic modulation of inner retinal cells. Supporting this, erucamide treatment elevated CD11b+ myeloid infiltration and upregulated trophic factors such as FGF, IGF-1 and BDNF, which may enhance synaptic function or resilience of bipolar and Müller cells. These findings point to a dual mechanism of action: preservation of rod photoreceptors and functional support to inner retinal circuits, underlying the observed rescue of visual signaling. TMEM19 is a new transmembrane protein with no reported function in any other