(v1.12); RSubread/ featureCounts (v2.0.3); limma-voom (v3.52.0); clusterProfiler (v4.0); METLIN database; AlphaFold Protein Structure Database Data analysis GraphPad Prism 10; ImageJ/Fiji (v1.54); limma-voom (v3.52.0); clusterProfiler (v4.0); XCMS Online (v3.7.0) For manuscripts utilizing custom algorithms or software that are central to the research but not yet described in published literature, software must be made available to editors and reviewers. We strongly encourage code deposition in a community repository (e.g. GitHub). See the Nature Portfolio guidelines for submitting code & software for further information. Data Policy information about availability of data All manuscripts must include a data availability statement. This statement should provide the following information, where applicable: - Accession codes, unique identifiers, or web links for publicly available datasets - A description of any restrictions on data availability - For clinical datasets or third party data, please ensure that the statement adheres to our policy RNA-seq data are deposited in NCBI GEO under accession code GSE284637. MS and PAL data are in supplementary excels. Source data for all figures are provided with this paper. All other data are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request. --- Page 28 --- 2 nature portfolio | reporting summary April 2023 Research involving human participants, their data, or biological material Policy information about studies with human participants or human data. See also policy information about sex, gender (identity/presentation), and sexual orientation and race, ethnicity and racism. Reporting on sex and gender N/A Reporting on race, ethnicity, or other socially relevant groupings N/A Population characteristics N/A Recruitment N/A Ethics oversight N/A Note that full information on the approval of the study protocol must also be provided in the manuscript. Field-specific reporting Please select the one below that is the best fit for your research. If you are not sure, read the appropriate sections before making your selection. Life sciences Behavioural & social sciences Ecological, evolutionary & environmental sciences For a reference copy of the document with all sections, see nature.com/documents/nr-reporting-summary-flat.pdf Life sciences study design All studies must disclose on these points even when the disclosure is negative. Sample size No statistical method was used to predetermine sample size. Sample sizes were chosen based on previous experience with similar experiments and standard practice in the field. Data exclusions No data were excluded from the analyses. Replication All experiments were independently repeated at least 3 times with similar results, except where stated in figure legends. Randomization For in vivo experiments, animals within the same litter were randomly assigned to treatment groups. Blinding Investigators were not blinded to group allocation during in vivo experiments. Quantification of retinal layer thickness, vascular density, CD11b+ cell counts, and ERG were performed using standardized automated or semi-automated methods to minimize subjective bias. Reporting for specific materials, systems and methods We require information from authors about some types of materials, experimental systems and methods used in many studies. Here, indicate whether each material, system or method listed is relevant to your study. If you are not sure if a list item applies to your