outer nuclear layer (ONL)30 and the inner nuclear layer (INL) were rescued by erucamide. (Fig. 2b,c). To assess retinal function, we performed electroretinography (ERG) recordings across a range of stimulus intensities. Erucamide-treated rd10 mice exhibited increased scotopic B-wave amplitudes compared with vehicle controls across intensities, reaching statistical significance at higher flash strengths (50 cd s/m2; Fig. 2d,e). These results indicate a rod-dominated, intensity-dependent functional rescue in a geneti- cally degenerating retina. Additionally, erucamide significantly pro- tected the intraretinal deep plexus vasculature from vaso-obliteration compared to vehicle-injected controls (Fig. 2f,g). Strikingly, we also observed significantly increased numbers of CD11b+ myeloid cells across the retinal layers, especially in the ONL after erucamide treat- ment. Our findings are consistent with prior work showing that the neu- roprotective effect of IGF-1 in rd10 mice also requires CD11b+ microglia, which infiltrate the ONL and support photoreceptor survival31. Taken together, these data showed that erucamide rescued retinal atrophy both morphologically and functionally in rd10 mice. Moreover, we extended our analysis to the RhoP23H model to test whether this pathway applies across different genetic contexts. Unlike rd10, which carries a missense mutation in exon 13 of phosphodiester- ase 6B (Pde6b)29, the RhoP23H model carries the p.Pro23His mutation in the rhodopsin gene and shows progressive retinal degeneration similar to that seen in patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa32. As shown in Extended Data Fig. 3, Eru produced clear rescue effects on INL thickness and vessel density, and showed intensity-dependent functional improvement in ERG responses. In this advanced disease stage, vascular density was quantified as a combined all-layer metric due to limited anatomical separation of individual plexuses. Together, these complementary models support the broad applicability of our approach across multiple forms of inherited retinal degeneration. Erucamide targets CD11b+ myeloid cells To evaluate the effects of erucamide on healthy ocular tissue and to determine the cellular and biological target of erucamide, it was intra- vitreally administered into 1-month-old wild-type (WT) C57BL/6J mouse retinas. Eru-C18-pSi injected mice showed an infiltration of GS-lectin+ cells at 3 days after injection, while retinas injected with C18-pSiNPs maintained a normal appearance similar to the non-injected control group (Fig. 3a). Further staining with collagen IV33 and CD11b34 revealed that the GS-lectin+ active signals were CD11b+ myeloid cells but not colla- gen IV+ endothelial cells (Fig. 3b). These results suggest that erucamide might directly target CD11b+ myeloid cells in the retina. We synthesized a fluorescent dye (BODIPY)-labeled erucamide (BDPErucamide; Fig. 3c) to directly observe the cellular targets. Strikingly, all BDPErucamide was taken up by CD11b+ cells, providing additional evidence that CD11b+ cells are the direct target of erucamide in the retinas (Fig. 3d). As observed in rd10 mice, CD11b+ cells in WT C57BL/6J retinas were activated across the retinal vascular layers by erucamide; however, unlike rd10 retinas, erucamide-induced CD11b+ cell accumulation in the ONL was not sig- nificant in WT eyes (Fig. 3e,f). Also, there was no aggressive choroidal neovascularization in both rd10 and WT mice after erucamide intra- vitreal injections (Extended Data Fig. 1d–f). To further