to shed light on their roles in the brain and other neuronal tissues. PFAMs10,11 represent a family of endogenous chemical messengers and signaling molecules in the mammalian nervous system. Struc- turally, PFAMs consist of a long hydrocarbon chain with an amide group (–CONH2) at one end. PFAMs like palmitamide, oleamide and the other three PFAMs were first discovered in 1989 in luteal phase plasma12. Although their biological functions were initially unclear, interest increased when oleamide was identified as an endogenous sleep-inducing molecule in mammalian cerebrospinal fluid10. Another PFAM, erucamide, was detected in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid of pig brain13 and was first isolated from bovine mesentery. It was reported to be pro-angiogenic over 34 years ago14,15, although its complete bio- logical function remains unclear. Given the critical role of PFAMs in the nervous system and the known importance of other fatty acids in the retina, we undertook an untargeted metabolomic and lipidomic screen of normal and degen- erating retinas. We found that one of the most profound changes in the retinal lipid profile occurred with a PFAM, erucamide. Erucamide levels decreased drastically in degenerating retinas, indicating a possible neu- roprotective function. To address the challenge of in vivo delivery of the hydrophobic erucamide molecule, we utilized organosilane-modified porous silicon nanoparticles (pSiNPs). Intravitreal injections of eru- camide nanoparticles led to widespread activation of GS-lectin-positive cells, which were identified as CD11b+ myeloid cells. This activation, driven by TMEM19 protein binding, was accompanied by the upregu- lation of angiogenic cytokines and growth factors, as well as neuro- protection, suggesting a new therapeutic function for erucamide in retinal diseases. Results Erucamide is downregulated during retinal degeneration Using high-resolution global mass spectrometry-based metabolomics, we cataloged the metabolites dysregulated during retinal degenera- tion in an animal model of RPE-mediated retinal degeneration, the Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rat. Dysregulated features were iden- tified using our data processing technology (XCMS)16 combined with Fig. 1 | Erucamide is downregulated in neuron degenerated retinas. a, All PFAMs were detected into the eyes of WT rats, and they were all significantly downregulated in RCS rat eyes compared to WT rat eyes (n ≥ 11). b, Erucamide is the most abundant PFAM in WT rat eyes (n = 11). c, Experimental tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) spectral data (collision energy 20 eV) were compared with the reference erucamide MS/MS spectra from the METLIN database (collision energy 20 eV)17,18. The comparison revealed highly consistent fragmentation patterns in both the intensity ratios and accurate masses of the fragment ions. d, LC–MS peak intensity of erucamide in WT and RCS rats. e, Erucamide is highly dysregulated in 1-year-old RCS eyes (two-tailed unpaired t-test, n = 11 for WT rats and n = 16 for RCS rats; t = 7.752, d.f. = 27, P < 0.0001). f, Erucamide level was attenuated in retinal degeneration mouse model rd10 compared to age-matched WT mouse retinas. The relative erucamide level in rd10 retinas is 28.4% ± 0.1% of the WT level (two-tailed unpaired t-test, n = 6, t