DAPI-labeled cryosections were imaged at high resolution. Thickness was measured at eight equidistant radial points extending from the optic nerve toward the peripheral retina on both the nasal and temporal sides. Mean values were calculated for each eye. Eyes injected with erucamide or vehicle (n ≥ 5 per group) were compared. The full procedure was repeated in four independent experiments. Statistical analysis was performed using two-way ANOVA, and data were plotted with GraphPad Prism 10. For vascular density analysis and CD11b+ cell quantification, z-stacks of three-channel con- focal images (collagen IV, CD11b and DAPI) were acquired at 5-μm step intervals across the full retinal thickness to capture the superficial, intermediate and deep plexus layers using retinal whole-mount prepa- rations. Maximum intensity projections were generated using ImageJ/ Fiji. Images were split into individual grayscale channels and thresh- olded to isolate vascular structures. Vascular density was calculated as the percentage of vessel-covered area relative to the total selected retinal area using the ‘Threshold’ and ‘Vascular density’ plugins in ImageJ/Fiji. CD11b+ cells were quantified from merged three-channel images using the ‘Cell Counter’ plugin in ImageJ/Fiji. Cell counts were performed independently in each vascular layer as well as the ONL. Ganzfeld electroretinography Mice were adapted to dark overnight, and all procedures were con- ducted under red light60. Mice were anesthetized via intraperitoneal injection of ketamine (100 mg per kg body weight) and xylazine (10 mg per kg body weight), and pupils were dilated with 1% tropicamide and 2.5% phenylephrine. Five minutes after dilation, mice were placed on a temperature-controlled heating pad to maintain body temperature throughout the recording. Silver needle electrodes were positioned --- Page 17 --- Nature Neuroscience Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-026-02341-w as the reference (central joules) and ground (skin above the tail), and full-field ERG responses were recorded from both eyes using active contact lens electrodes (Mayo). Recordings were obtained using an electronically controlled Ganzfeld dome (Espion E2 with Colordome; Diagnosys). Scotopic responses were recorded in darkness using a series of white flashes at increasing intensities (0.01, 25 and 50 cd s/m2). After 5 min of light adaptation under a 30 cd/m2 background, pho- topic responses were recorded using a 25 cd s/m2 flash, followed by flicker responses at 10 Hz (25 cd s/m2) stimuli. ERG signals were fil- tered at 0.3–300 Hz, and signal averaging was applied to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. Probe synthesis Methods and experimental procedures for syntheses of compound probes (BDPErucamide, Eru.da, Ole.da and Pal.da) are listed in the Supplementary Information. Statistical analysis Statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism 10 software. Unless otherwise specified, data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation or standard error of the mean. Comparisons between two groups were made using two-tailed unpaired t-tests. For two-factor experimental designs, two-way ANOVA followed by Fisher’s LSD post hoc test was applied. For multiple-group comparisons, the two-stage, step-up method (Benjamini, Krieger and Yekutieli) was used for control- ling the false discovery rate in multiple unpaired t-tests. A P value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. All data